server/terraform/README.md, before:

# Juju deployment

Local Juju and charm deployment via microk8s and terraform.

## Setup a juju environment

It is recommended to install the pre-requisites on a VM rather than your host machine. To do so, first install multipass:

```bash
sudo snap install multipass
```

Then launch a new VM instance using (this will take a while):

```bash
multipass launch noble --disk 50G --memory 4G --cpus 2 --name testflinger-juju --mount /path/to/testflinger:/home/ubuntu/testflinger --cloud-init /path/to/testflinger/server/terraform/cloud-init.yaml --timeout 1800
```

Feel free to increase the storage, memory, cpu limits or change the VM name.

## Initialize project's terraform

Now that everything has been set up, you can initialize the project's terraform.

In the terraform directory on your host machine, run:

```bash
multipass exec testflinger-juju -- terraform init
```

## Deploy everything

In the terraform directory on your host machine, run:

```bash
multipass exec testflinger-juju -- terraform apply -auto-approve
```

Then wait for the deployment to settle and all the statuses to become active. You can watch the statuses via:

```bash
multipass exec testflinger-juju -- juju status --storage --relations --watch 5s
```

## Connect to your deployment

Look at the IPv4 addresses of your testflinger-juju vm through:

```bash
multipass info testflinger-juju
```

One of these connect to the ingress enabled inside the VM. To figure out which one try the following command on each IP address until you get response:

```bash
curl --connect-to ::<ip-address> http://testflinger.local
```

Once you find the IP address add the following entry to your host machine's `/etc/hosts` file:

```text
<ip-address>   testflinger.local
```

After that you should be able to get to Testflinger frontend on your host machine's browser through the url `http://testflinger.local`. You should also be able to access the API through `http://testflinger.local/v1/`.

## Teardown

To take everything down you can start with terraform:

```bash
multipass exec testflinger-juju -- terraform destroy -auto-approve
```

The above step can take a while and may even get stuck with some applications in error state. You can watch it through:

```bash
multipass exec testflinger-juju -- juju status --storage --relations --watch 5s
```

To forcefully remove applications stuck in error state:

```bash
multipass exec testflinger-juju -- juju remove-application <application-name> --destroy-storage --force
```

Once everything is down and the juju model has been deleted you can stop the multipass VM:

```bash
multipass stop testflinger-juju
```

Optionally, delete the VM:

```bash
multipass delete --purge testflinger-juju
```

Commit message:

Fix server juju cloud init setup (#475)
* Fix server juju cloud init setup

* Add mention of timeout

server/terraform/README.md, after:

# Juju deployment

Local Juju and charm deployment via microk8s and terraform.

## Setup a juju environment

It is recommended to install the pre-requisites on a VM rather than your host machine. To do so, first install multipass:

```bash
sudo snap install multipass
```

Then launch a new VM instance using (this will take a while):

```bash
multipass launch noble --disk 50G --memory 4G --cpus 2 --name testflinger-juju --mount /path/to/testflinger:/home/ubuntu/testflinger --cloud-init /path/to/testflinger/server/terraform/cloud-init.yaml --timeout 1200
```

Feel free to increase the storage, memory, cpu limits or change the VM name.

Note that the initialization may timeout. That's fine as long as the setup actually completed. You can tell that the setup completed by checking if there are juju models created already:

```bash
multipass exec testflinger-juju -- juju models
```

## Initialize project's terraform

Now that everything has been set up, you can initialize the project's terraform.

In the terraform directory on your host machine, run:

```bash
multipass exec testflinger-juju -- terraform init
```

## Deploy everything

In the terraform directory on your host machine, run:

```bash
multipass exec testflinger-juju -- terraform apply -auto-approve
```

Then wait for the deployment to settle and all the statuses to become active. You can watch the statuses via:

```bash
multipass exec testflinger-juju -- juju status --storage --relations --watch 5s
```

## Connect to your deployment

Look at the IPv4 addresses of your testflinger-juju vm through:

```bash
multipass info testflinger-juju
```

One of these connect to the ingress enabled inside the VM. To figure out which one try the following command on each IP address until you get response:

```bash
curl --connect-to ::<ip-address> http://testflinger.local
```

Once you find the IP address add the following entry to your host machine's `/etc/hosts` file:

```text
<ip-address>   testflinger.local
```

After that you should be able to get to Testflinger frontend on your host machine's browser through the url `http://testflinger.local`. You should also be able to access the API through `http://testflinger.local/v1/`.

## Teardown

To take everything down you can start with terraform:

```bash
multipass exec testflinger-juju -- terraform destroy -auto-approve
```

The above step can take a while and may even get stuck with some applications in error state. You can watch it through:

```bash
multipass exec testflinger-juju -- juju status --storage --relations --watch 5s
```

To forcefully remove applications stuck in error state:

```bash
multipass exec testflinger-juju -- juju remove-application <application-name> --destroy-storage --force
```

Once everything is down and the juju model has been deleted you can stop the multipass VM:

```bash
multipass stop testflinger-juju
```

Optionally, delete the VM:

```bash
multipass delete --purge testflinger-juju
```
