docs/index.rst, before:

:relatedlinks: [Diátaxis](https://diataxis.fr/)

.. _home:

Testflinger
============

.. A single sentence that says what the product is, succinctly and memorably.

Testflinger is a system for orchestrating the time-sharing of access to a pool of
target machines.

.. A paragraph of one to three short sentences, that describe what the product does.

Each Testflinger system consists of:

* a web service (called just Testflinger) that provides an API to request jobs
  by placing them on a queue
* per machine agents that wait for jobs to placed on queues they can service
  and then process them

Jobs can be either fully automated scripts that can attempt to complete within
the allocated time or interactive shell sessions.

.. A third paragraph of similar length, this time explaining what need the product meets.

The Testflinger system is particular useful for sharing finite machine resources
between different consumers in a predictable fashion.
 

.. Finally, a paragraph that describes whom the product is useful for.

Typically this has been used for managing a test lab where CI/CD test runs and
also exploratory testing by human operators is desired.

---------

In this documentation
---------------------

..  grid:: 1 1 2 2

   ..  grid-item:: :doc:`Tutorial <tutorial/index>`

       **Start here**: a hands-on introduction to Testflinger for new users

   ..  grid-item:: :doc:`How-to guides <how-to/index>`

      **Step-by-step guides** covering key operations and common tasks

.. grid:: 1 1 2 2
   :reverse:

   .. grid-item:: :doc:`Reference <reference/index>`

      **Technical information** - specifications, APIs, architecture

   .. grid-item:: :doc:`Explanation <explanation/index>`

      **Discussion and clarification** of key topics

---------

Project and community
---------------------

Testflinger is a member of the Ubuntu family. It's an open source project that
warmly welcomes community projects, contributions, suggestions, fixes and
constructive feedback.

* This project follows the `Ubuntu Code of Conduct`_
* This project is `hosted on GitHub`_, contributions welcome
* :ref:`Thinking about using Testflinger for your next project? Get in touch! <home>`


.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   :maxdepth: 2

   tutorial/index
   how-to/index
   reference/index
   explanation/index

.. _Ubuntu Code of Conduct: https://ubuntu.com/community/ethos/code-of-conduct
.. _hosted on GitHub: https://github.com/canonical/testflinger

Commit message:

Docs(infra): migrate Sphinx docs starter-pack to latest extension (#768)
* fix: exempt logo images from LFS

* add git-lfs to docs Makefile as dependency

* update RTD build config to support lfs

* enable fail_on_warning during doc build

* Migrate files to extension-based starter-pack 1.2.0

https://github.com/canonical/sphinx-docs-starter-pack/releases/tag/1.2.0

* Move sphinx config to conf.py to match new version

The old conf.py is imported from canonical-sphinx extension, moving
local configuration from custom_conf.py to conf.py

* Update Makefile from latest starter-pack

Add new targets for optional doc quality checks,
improve Makefile commands for doc build

* use new spelling check and clean up old wordlist

* update docs contributing guide

* format and minor updates on index homepage

* fix more spelling

* remove unused doc scripts: metrics and update

* fix markdown linting config file

docs/index.rst, after:

:relatedlinks: [Project&#32;repository](https://github.com/canonical/testflinger)

.. _home:

Testflinger
============

Testflinger is a system for orchestrating time-shared access to a pool of
target machines.

Each Testflinger system consists of:

* a web service (called just Testflinger) that provides an API to request jobs
  by placing them on a queue
* per-machine agents that wait for jobs to be placed on queues they can service
  and then process them

Jobs can be either fully automated scripts that can attempt to complete within
the allocated time or interactive shell sessions.

The Testflinger system is particularly useful for sharing finite machine resources
between different consumers in a predictable fashion.

Typically this has been used for managing a test lab where CI/CD test runs and
also exploratory testing by human operators is desired.

---------

In this documentation
---------------------

.. grid:: 1 1 2 2

   .. grid-item-card:: Tutorial
      :link: /tutorial/index
      :link-type: doc

      **Get started** - a hands-on introduction to Testflinger for new users

   .. grid-item-card:: How-to guides
      :link: /how-to/index
      :link-type: doc

      **Step-by-step guides** - covering key operations and common tasks

.. grid:: 1 1 2 2

   .. grid-item-card:: Reference
      :link: /reference/index
      :link-type: doc

      **Technical information** - specifications, APIs, architecture

   .. grid-item-card:: Explanation
      :link: /explanation/index
      :link-type: doc

      **Discussion and clarification** of key concepts

---------

Project and community
---------------------

Testflinger is a member of the Ubuntu family. It is an open source project that
warmly welcomes community contributions, suggestions, fixes and
constructive feedback.

* This project follows the `Ubuntu Code of Conduct`_
* This project is `hosted on GitHub`_ - contributions are welcome
* :ref:`Interested in using Testflinger for your project? Get in touch! <home>`


.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   :maxdepth: 2

   tutorial/index
   how-to/index
   reference/index
   explanation/index

.. _Ubuntu Code of Conduct: https://ubuntu.com/community/ethos/code-of-conduct
.. _hosted on GitHub: https://github.com/canonical/testflinger
