docs/explanation/agents.rst, before:

Testflinger Agents
==================

The Testflinger agent is a per-machine service that runs on an agent host
system. The agent is configured with a set of :doc:`queues <queues>` for which
it knows how to run jobs. When it is not running a job, the agent:

   * Asks the server for a job to run from the list of configured :doc:`queues <queues>`
   * Dispatches the device connector to execute each :doc:`phase <../reference/test-phases>` of the job
   * Reports the results of the job back to the server
   * Uploads artifacts (if any) saved from the job to the server

You can see a list of agents in the Testflinger web interface by clicking on the
"Agents" link in the top navigation bar.

Communication with the Server
-----------------------------

The agent communicates with the server using a REST API. The agent polls the
server for jobs to run at a configurable interval. When a job is found, the agent
downloads the job and any associated artifacts and begins running the job. When
the job is complete, the agent uploads the results and any artifacts to the server.

The server does not push jobs to the agent, and never needs to initiate a connection
to the agent. This makes it easy to run agents behind firewalls or in other
network configurations where the agent cannot be directly reached by the server.
However, it also means that the server has no way of knowing if an agent has gone
away forever if it stops checking in. If this happens, the server will continue to
show the agent in the "Agents" list, but it's important to pay attention to the
timestamp for when the agent was last updated.  This timestamp will continue to
be updated even if the agent is offline as long as the agent is still running and
able to communicate with the server. If an agent has not checked in after 7 days,
it will automatically be removed from the database and will no longer appear in
the "Agents" list.

Handling Agent Status
-------------------------------------------

Restarting an Agent
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When an agent needs to be re-executed due to something like a code update or a
configuration change, it is important to shut it down safely so that it does not
interfere with a job currently running. To do this, you can use the following method:

1. Send a SIGUSR1 signal to the agent's process

This method will cause the agent to exit when it is no longer running
a job. You will need to ensure something like systemd or supervisord is watching
the agent process and restarting it if it exits in order to actually restart the
agent.

Set an Agent Offline
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Each agent is designed to process jobs indefinitely by listening for jobs in its specified queues
until any job is available for them. If an agent needs to be set to offline to stop
processing any jobs, its status can be modified from the CLI. This can be useful when there
is some debugging or maintenance needed on the physical machine.
The procedure to offline an agent could be one of the following:

* Set agent to offline. 

Requires a reason for changing the agent status:

.. code-block:: shell

   testflinger-cli admin set agent-status --status offline --agents <agent_name> --comment "<Offline Reason>"


* Set agent to maintenance. 

This status doesn't need to define a reason as it uses a predefined comment.

.. code-block:: shell

   testflinger-cli admin set agent-status --status maintenance --agents <agent_name>

In both statuses, the agent will effectively stop processing jobs immediately if not processing 
any job, otherwise it will wait until job completion to change agent status. It is important to note
that in any of the above statuses, the agent will prevent restarting; if a restart signal is detected
it will be deferred until the agent is marked online. 

.. note::

   Changing agent status through the CLI requires authentication with admin 
   privileges. Please refer to :doc:`Authentication and Authorisation <../how-to/authentication>`
   section for more information. 

.. tip::

   If you wish to change the status for multiple agents at the same time, you can define a list 
   of the agents you want to change status e.g. ``--agents agent1 agent2 ... agentN``


Set an Agent Online
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To set an agent to online in order to recover from an unexpected agent failure or after being set 
to offline manually, execute the following command from the CLI:

.. code-block:: shell

   testflinger-cli admin set agent-status --status online --agents <agent_name>

.. note::

   Changing agent status through the CLI requires authentication with admin 
   privileges. Please refer to :doc:`Authentication and Authorisation <../how-to/authentication>`
   section for more information. 

.. tip::

   If you wish to change the status for multiple agents at the same time, you can define a list 
   of the agents you want to change status e.g. ``--agents agent1 agent2 ... agentN``

Commit message:

docs: add information about testflinger-admin in public documentation

docs/explanation/agents.rst, after:

Testflinger Agents
==================

The Testflinger agent is a per-machine service that runs on an agent host
system. The agent is configured with a set of :doc:`queues <queues>` for which
it knows how to run jobs. When it is not running a job, the agent:

   * Asks the server for a job to run from the list of configured :doc:`queues <queues>`
   * Dispatches the device connector to execute each :doc:`phase <../reference/test-phases>` of the job
   * Reports the results of the job back to the server
   * Uploads artifacts (if any) saved from the job to the server

You can see a list of agents in the Testflinger web interface by clicking on the
"Agents" link in the top navigation bar.

Communication with the Server
-----------------------------

The agent communicates with the server using a REST API. The agent polls the
server for jobs to run at a configurable interval. When a job is found, the agent
downloads the job and any associated artifacts and begins running the job. When
the job is complete, the agent uploads the results and any artifacts to the server.

The server does not push jobs to the agent, and never needs to initiate a connection
to the agent. This makes it easy to run agents behind firewalls or in other
network configurations where the agent cannot be directly reached by the server.
However, it also means that the server has no way of knowing if an agent has gone
away forever if it stops checking in. If this happens, the server will continue to
show the agent in the "Agents" list, but it's important to pay attention to the
timestamp for when the agent was last updated.  This timestamp will continue to
be updated even if the agent is offline as long as the agent is still running and
able to communicate with the server. If an agent has not checked in after 7 days,
it will automatically be removed from the database and will no longer appear in
the "Agents" list.

Handling Agent Status
-------------------------------------------

Restarting an Agent
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When an agent needs to be re-executed due to something like a code update or a
configuration change, it is important to shut it down safely so that it does not
interfere with a job currently running. To do this, you can use the following method:

1. Send a SIGUSR1 signal to the agent's process

This method will cause the agent to exit when it is no longer running
a job. You will need to ensure something like systemd or supervisord is watching
the agent process and restarting it if it exits in order to actually restart the
agent.

Set an Agent Offline
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. note::
   The following action require an authenticated ``client_id`` with admin privileges, 
   for more information please refer to :doc:`Create or edit Testflinger admin credentials <../how-to/create-admin-user>` 
   if needed to set an initial admin ``client_id``.

Each agent is designed to process jobs indefinitely by listening for jobs in its specified queues
until any job is available for them. If an agent needs to be set to offline to stop
processing any jobs, its status can be modified from the CLI. This can be useful when there
is some debugging or maintenance needed on the physical machine.
The procedure to offline an agent could be one of the following:

* Set agent to offline. 

Requires a reason for changing the agent status:

.. code-block:: shell

   testflinger-cli admin set agent-status --status offline --agents <agent_name> --comment "<Offline Reason>"


* Set agent to maintenance. 

This status doesn't need to define a reason as it uses a predefined comment.

.. code-block:: shell

   testflinger-cli admin set agent-status --status maintenance --agents <agent_name>

In both statuses, the agent will effectively stop processing jobs immediately if not processing 
any job, otherwise it will wait until job completion to change agent status. It is important to note
that in any of the above statuses, the agent will prevent restarting; if a restart signal is detected
it will be deferred until the agent is marked online. 

.. tip::

   If you wish to change the status for multiple agents at the same time, you can define a list 
   of the agents you want to change status e.g. ``--agents agent1 agent2 ... agentN``


Set an Agent Online
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. note::
   The following action require an authenticated ``client_id`` with admin privileges, 
   for more information please refer to :doc:`Create or edit Testflinger admin credentials <../how-to/create-admin-user>` 
   if needed to set an initial admin ``client_id``.

To set an agent to online in order to recover from an unexpected agent failure or after being set 
to offline manually, execute the following command from the CLI:

.. code-block:: shell

   testflinger-cli admin set agent-status --status online --agents <agent_name>

.. tip::

   If you wish to change the status for multiple agents at the same time, you can define a list 
   of the agents you want to change status e.g. ``--agents agent1 agent2 ... agentN``
